The following is the codebook for the course project for the Getting and Cleaning Data Coursera Course:

This repo assumes you have downloaded the necessary data from the Coursera website on data collected from the accelerometers from the Samsung Galaxy S. If you have not, please do so using download.file("https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip") The file contains a folder labeled UCI HAR Dataset, which contains the necessary data. This repo contains one program, run_analysis.R which transforms this data into a tidy dataset. The specifications of this data set are outlined as follows:

Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement.
Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set
Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names.
From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.
The program takes as an argument the file path to the folder containing the data, defaulting to the existing name of "UCI HAR dataset" The program stores the current working directory, uses the provided working directory to extract the data, then sets the working directory back to its original value. This program assumes you have the dplyr r package installed, as it uses some functions from that package. If you do not have the dplyr package installed, please use download.packages(dplyr) to install it. The program reads the data, stored in "features", "subject_test", "x_test", "y_test", "subject_train", "x_train", and "y_train" into variables of the same names. The breakdown of these data is stored in the readme file provided with the data. The program then creates three variables, X containing the raw data, Y containing the labels for the data, and Subject containing information on which data corresponds to which subject. The file then creates an intermediate file named Merged_Data that merges these three variables together. The program the creates the table TidyData that extracts only the mean and standard deviation data from Merged_Data. The program then adds descriptive labels to the data, so that the row labels are now Subject, Activity, Accelorometer, Gyroscope, Body, Magnitude, Time, Frequency, TimeBody, Mean, STD, Frequency, Angle, and Gravity. More specific information on the specific variables can be found in the readme and features_info.txt files provided with the data. A blurb from the readme is provided, explaining the data provided at a low level.

Triaxial acceleration from the accelerometer (total acceleration) and the estimated body acceleration.
Triaxial Angular velocity from the gyroscope.
A 561-feature vector with time and frequency domain variables.
The program then groups the data by subject and activity so the data is sorted in an easy to read way, and calculates the mean of each subject/activity pairing in the independent table FinalData. Finally, this program writes FinalData to a file named FinalData.txt so that the data is stored on the user's system.
